# Digital Circuits and Systems
## Combinational Logic
A circuit whose outputs are Boolean functions of its inputs is a **combinational circuit**. 
- to analyze, label all gate outputs
- write down truth table
- write boolean expressions for gate outputs in terms of inputs and simplify
- draw diagram

For speed, use 2-level implementations, for minimization, use simplified expressions.

**Decoders** can, for example, take 3 inputs to 8 outputs, with 8 AND gates.

**Encoders** take 8 inputs and binary representation of the selected input in terms of three outputs (z = d1 + d3 + d5 + d7, y = d2 + d3 + d5 + d7, x = d4 + d5 + d6 + d7).

**Multiplexers** are switches that connect selected inputs to their outputs. Can be used to implement any function of n variables with a 2^(n-1)-to-one-line multiplexer.

## Synchronous Sequential Circuits
**Sequential Circuits** contain memory elements. Output depends on inputs AND the state of memory elements. Uses circuit feedback.A circuit that is a loop with two NOT gates (using feedback) holds two steady states Q and Q'. 
- SR latch is implemented with two NOR gates, S=1 sets, R=1 resets (Set Reset Latch).
- D latch (Data latch) stores the value of D

**Flip-Flops** use "edge-triggered" enabler inputs to allow time for the combinational logic outputs to reach their correct values, simultaneously. These are *sequential* using the *clock* signal.

**Positive edge triggering** enables when the signal goes from 0 to 1. **Negative edge triggering** enables when the signal goes from 1 to 0.
- JK flip-flop are SR latches that are edge triggered with the ability to toggle when J=K=1.
- T flip-flop toggles current memory value.
  - both implemented with D latches

Characteristic tables are truth tables where outputs can be written as state prior to triggering as Q(t) and after triggering as Q(t+1). Same with characteristic equations.

## Analysis of Synchronous Sequential Circuits
Clock driven circuits with memory elements. Analysis:
- state equations
  - input equations, with current state of flip flops, A(t)
  - characteristic equations of flip-flops (for A(t+1))
  - output equations, with functions of present state and inputs
- state table (tabular form of equations)
- state diagram (graphical representation)

