### [The 5 hour rule](https://medium.com/@michaeldsimmons/bill-gates-warren-buffett-and-oprah-all-use-the-5-hour-rule-308f528b6363)
It's the idea that many successful entrepreneurs follow, of having a set aside amount of time daily to learn and grow. This follows the article on work-life balance; maintaining your fundamentals is important, one of which is learning. This is something I am strongly aligned with, as per the existence of this repository of thoughts and notes. By setting aside time every day to learn, you can ensure that stagnation will be avoided and you can see compounding effectiveness as you improve learning workflows. The article goes on further to say that others spend this 1-hour a day thinking about their mental models and perception of the world around them, while other's spend it experimenting with new ideas.

### [The way you read books is important](https://medium.com/the-mission/the-way-you-read-books-says-a-lot-about-your-intelligence-find-out-why-c2127b00eb03)
This article articulated some important concepts around how to tackle books in digestible and reasonable ways. The biggest takeaway for me is to not approaching books with a completionist mindset, and instead optimize for value (non-fiction material). I think people get hung up with hearing statistics about billionaires finishing a book a day or something in that vein. What really matters is extracting value out of reading material in an effective way. It highlights that having a reading backlog of unread books is a strong habit for ensuring that the books you do end up consuming are higher quality and more impactful. It keeps you humble, knowing how little you know about the world. **Reading books like magazines** can be a helpful idea for skimming books for value. Treat books like experiments, in hopes of finding life-changing and inspirational ideas.

### [Deep Work and Flow](https://www.robinwieruch.de/lessons-learned-deep-work-flow/)
This is a really interesting article that ties together ideas from two books.

**Deep Work** pushes your cognitive capabilities to the limit, creating new value and improving skills. Often requires a distraction free context.

**Flow** is a state of mind where time becomes irrelevant and intentional focus leads to active enjoyment (different from passive pleasure). I think about riding roller coasters or enjoying a good dinner. Deep work can induce a state of flow.
